README.md, before:

# LinkedOut - AI-Powered LinkedIn Inbox 
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/linkedout-hero-optimizied.png" alt="LinkedOut Preview" width="100%" />
</div>

LinkedOut was built to help manage hectic LinkedIn inboxes on mobile and desktop. It includes AI draft replies and static text snippets library, making it a nimble assistant without being ChatGPT. Front-end built with Next.js, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Backend runs on n8n and PocketBase. Clone it, tweak it, make it yours.


## Features

- AI-powered message drafts
- Responsive design for mobile and desktop
- Beautiful UI with dark mode support
- Secure authentication
- Setup wizard to deploy backend and set up database
- Open source: Self-host it, fork it.

## Known Outscope
- Emoji reactions will not show
- Group threads do not show (only Classic LinkedIN inbox, no Sales navigator either). Should be easy to tweak.
- Draft reply only takes previous message (and name) as context. 
- Text Snippets can be Created/ Updated / Deleted via PocketBase, not yet in-app.
- Manual setup route not documented yet (working on it)
- Setup flow does not configure AI model nodes in n8n workflow (WIP)

## Tech Stack
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/linkedout-arch-optimized.png" alt="LinkedOut Preview" width="100%" />
</div>

### Frontend
- **Framework:** Next.js  (App Router)
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components:** shadcn/ui
- **Authentication:** Custom auth with JWT

### Backend
- **Database & Auth:** PocketBase
- **Workflows as Backend:** n8n via webhook endpoints, and n8n api for /setup
- **LinkedIn API Access:** Unipile

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- PocketBase instance
- n8n instance for automation workflows. Get 50% off [n8n cloud](https://app.n8n.cloud/register?utm_campaign=linkedout) for 12 months with MAX50. Enter coupon after free trial when choosing a plan.
- A [Unipile account for](https://www.unipile.com/linkedin-api-a-comprehensive-guide-to-integration/?utm_source=youtube&utm_campaign=MAXFROMN8N) LinkedIn API access. Get 50% off Unipile for 3 months with MAXFROMN8N code (message support with code after sign up)


## Installation
Watch a [set up video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTLIsrOW-t0).

### Via Docker 
1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/maxt-n8n/linkedout.git
   cd linkedout
   ```

2. **Copy the example environment file and start the containers**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   docker compose up --build
   ```

3. **Access the applications**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - PocketBase: http://localhost:8090
   - n8n: http://localhost:5678

4. **Complete the setup wizard**
   - Navigate to http://localhost:3000/setup
   - Follow the on-screen instructions to configure n8n workflows and PocketBase

### Docker Networking Notes
The Docker Compose setup uses a special configuration for networking:
- The frontend container uses `http://n8n:5678` to communicate with n8n
- The browser uses `http://localhost:8090` to access PocketBase
- This hybrid approach allows both browser and server-side code to work without modifications

If you encounter networking issues:
- Make sure all containers are running (`docker compose ps`)
- Check container logs (`docker compose logs frontend`)
- You may need to rebuild without cache (`docker compose build --no-cache`)

### Via CloudStation Template
1. Set up the one-click LinkedOut + PocketBase template on CloudStation: [CloudStation LinkedOut Template](https://app.cloud-station.io/template-store/linkedout). You'll need an n8n instance ready by this step.
2. Follow the setup wizard to connect your n8n instance and Unipile account.
3. Complete the setup wizard (go to /setup if you get redirected to /inbox)
4. Open your n8n workflows and replace any AI model steps with your own (not yet part of setup flow). 

### Via Manual Deployment
1. **Set up n8n**
   - Create a **Unipile [LinkedIn API]** Header credential with your Unipile API key
   - Import the following workflows from the GitHub repository:
     - `/inbox backend [linkedout]`
     - `/thread backend [linkedout]`
     - `New message ingress [linkedout]`
     - `/setup backend [linkedout]` (optional)
   - Update all placeholder values in the workflows:
     - `****POCKETBASE_BASE_URL****`: Your PocketBase URL
     - `****POCKETBASE_SERVICE_USER_EMAIL****`: Service account email
     - `****POCKETBASE_SERVICE_USER_PASSWORD****`: Service account password
     - `****UNIPILE_ACCOUNT_ID****`: Your Unipile account ID
     - `****UNIPILE_DSN****`: Your Unipile DSN

2. **Set up PocketBase**
   - Create the following collections:
     - `users` (with auth enabled)
     - `threads`
     - `messages`
     - `text_snippets`
   - Create a service account with email `linkedout-service@example.com` (or update workflows with your preferred email)
   - Set a secure password for the service account (and update workflows accordingly)

3. **Deploy the Frontend**
   - Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/maxt-n8n/linkedout.git`
   - Install dependencies: `npm install` or `yarn install`
   - Set environment variables:
     - `NEXT_PUBLIC_POCKETBASE_URL`: Your PocketBase URL
     - `NEXT_PUBLIC_N8N_WEBHOOK_URL`: Your n8n webhook URL
   - Build and start the application:
     - Development: `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`
     - Production: `npm run build && npm start` or `yarn build && yarn start`

Note: Do not include trailing slashes in URL environment variables.


## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_N8N_WEBHOOK_URL` | N8N URL (without /webhook) | Yes |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_POCKETBASE_URL` | PocketBase URL | Yes |
| `PB_ADMIN_EMAIL` | PocketBase admin email | For Docker setup |
| `PB_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | PocketBase admin password | For Docker setup |

Note: do not include '/' trailing slash in URL env variables. It will break things (WIP to filter that out).

## Contributing
Post an issue to discuss merging in a change. We'll open it up for more streamlined contributions if there's interest. 

---

<div align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/maxtkacz">Max </a>and <a href="https://github.com/oumnya">Oumnya</a>  
</div>

Commit message:

feat: Refactor .env.example and Docker configuration for enhanced local development setup and ngrok integration

README.md, after:

# LinkedOut - AI-Powered LinkedIn Inbox 
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/linkedout-hero-optimizied.png" alt="LinkedOut Preview" width="100%" />
</div>

LinkedOut was built to help manage hectic LinkedIn inboxes on mobile and desktop. It includes AI draft replies and static text snippets library, making it a nimble assistant without being ChatGPT. Front-end built with Next.js, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Backend runs on n8n and PocketBase. Clone it, tweak it, make it yours.


## Features

- AI-powered message drafts
- Responsive design for mobile and desktop
- Beautiful UI with dark mode support
- Secure authentication
- Setup wizard to deploy backend and set up database
- Open source: Self-host it, fork it.

## Known Outscope
- Emoji reactions will not show
- Group threads do not show (only Classic LinkedIN inbox, no Sales navigator either). Should be easy to tweak.
- Draft reply only takes previous message (and name) as context. 
- Text Snippets can be Created/ Updated / Deleted via PocketBase, not yet in-app.
- Manual setup route not documented yet (working on it)
- Setup flow does not configure AI model nodes in n8n workflow (WIP)

## Tech Stack
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/linkedout-arch-optimized.png" alt="LinkedOut Preview" width="100%" />
</div>

### Frontend
- **Framework:** Next.js  (App Router)
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components:** shadcn/ui
- **Authentication:** Custom auth with JWT

### Backend
- **Database & Auth:** PocketBase
- **Workflows as Backend:** n8n via webhook endpoints, and n8n api for /setup
- **LinkedIn API Access:** Unipile

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- PocketBase instance
- n8n instance for automation workflows. Get 50% off [n8n cloud](https://app.n8n.cloud/register?utm_campaign=linkedout) for 12 months with MAX50. Enter coupon after free trial when choosing a plan.
- A [Unipile account for](https://www.unipile.com/linkedin-api-a-comprehensive-guide-to-integration/?utm_source=youtube&utm_campaign=MAXFROMN8N) LinkedIn API access. Get 50% off Unipile for 3 months with MAXFROMN8N code (message support with code after sign up)
- **Ngrok account** for local development (required to receive webhook notifications from Unipile). [Get your authtoken here](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken).


## Installation
Watch a [set up video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTLIsrOW-t0).

### Via Docker 
1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/maxt-n8n/linkedout.git
   cd linkedout
   ```

2. **Copy the example environment file and start the containers**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

3. **Update the .env file with your ngrok authtoken**
   ```
   NGROK_AUTHTOKEN=your_token_here
   ```
   This is required for local development to receive webhook notifications from Unipile. Get your authtoken from the [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken).

4. **Start the containers**
   ```bash
   docker compose up --build
   ```

5. **Access the applications**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - PocketBase: http://localhost:8090
   - n8n: http://localhost:5678
   - ngrok dashboard: http://localhost:4040

6. **Complete the setup wizard**
   - Navigate to http://localhost:3000/setup
   - Follow the on-screen instructions to configure n8n workflows and PocketBase
   - When configuring Unipile, use the ngrok URL (visible in the ngrok dashboard) as your webhook URL

### Docker Networking Notes
The Docker Compose setup uses a hybrid networking approach:

- For browser requests: The browser accesses services via `localhost` ports (3000 for frontend, 8090 for PocketBase, 5678 for n8n)
- For server-side code: The frontend container communicates with other services using Docker's internal DNS:
  - Server-side code automatically converts `localhost` URLs to service names (e.g., `localhost:5678` → `n8n:5678`)
  - This allows both browser and server-side code to use the same environment variables

This approach eliminates the need for different URLs in different environments and simplifies development.

If you encounter networking issues:
- Make sure all containers are running (`docker compose ps`)
- Check container logs (`docker compose logs frontend`)
- Verify that the frontend container has the correct `extra_hosts` configuration
- You may need to rebuild without cache (`docker compose build --no-cache`)

### Via CloudStation Template
1. Set up the one-click LinkedOut + PocketBase template on CloudStation: [CloudStation LinkedOut Template](https://app.cloud-station.io/template-store/linkedout). You'll need an n8n instance ready by this step.
2. Follow the setup wizard to connect your n8n instance and Unipile account.
3. Complete the setup wizard (go to /setup if you get redirected to /inbox)
4. Open your n8n workflows and replace any AI model steps with your own (not yet part of setup flow). 

### Via Manual Deployment
1. **Set up n8n**
   - Create a **Unipile [LinkedIn API]** Header credential with your Unipile API key
   - Import the following workflows from the GitHub repository:
     - `/inbox backend [linkedout]`
     - `/thread backend [linkedout]`
     - `New message ingress [linkedout]`
     - `/setup backend [linkedout]` (optional)
   - Update all placeholder values in the workflows:
     - `****POCKETBASE_BASE_URL****`: Your PocketBase URL
     - `****POCKETBASE_SERVICE_USER_EMAIL****`: Service account email
     - `****POCKETBASE_SERVICE_USER_PASSWORD****`: Service account password
     - `****UNIPILE_ACCOUNT_ID****`: Your Unipile account ID
     - `****UNIPILE_DSN****`: Your Unipile DSN

2. **Set up PocketBase**
   - Create the following collections:
     - `users` (with auth enabled)
     - `threads`
     - `messages`
     - `text_snippets`
   - Create a service account with email `linkedout-service@example.com` (or update workflows with your preferred email)
   - Set a secure password for the service account (and update workflows accordingly)

3. **Deploy the Frontend**
   - Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/maxt-n8n/linkedout.git`
   - Install dependencies: `npm install` or `yarn install`
   - Set environment variables:
     - `NEXT_PUBLIC_POCKETBASE_URL`: Your PocketBase URL
     - `NEXT_PUBLIC_N8N_WEBHOOK_URL`: Your n8n webhook URL
   - Build and start the application:
     - Development: `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`
     - Production: `npm run build && npm start` or `yarn build && yarn start`

Note: Do not include trailing slashes in URL environment variables.


## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_N8N_WEBHOOK_URL` | N8N URL (without /webhook) | Yes |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_POCKETBASE_URL` | PocketBase URL | Yes |
| `PB_ADMIN_EMAIL` | PocketBase admin email | For Docker setup |
| `PB_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | PocketBase admin password | For Docker setup |
| `NGROK_AUTHTOKEN` | Your ngrok authtoken | For local development |

Note: do not include '/' trailing slash in URL env variables. It will break things (WIP to filter that out).

## Contributing
Post an issue to discuss merging in a change. We'll open it up for more streamlined contributions if there's interest. 

---

<div align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/maxtkacz">Max </a>and <a href="https://github.com/oumnya">Oumnya</a>  
</div>
